[Music]
mama pica and her infant have spent a
year in a cage waiting for this moment a
year Lona spent finding this safe area
of forest and organizing their return to
the wild
it's a lot of time it's a lot of money
investing in a wild animal but on the
other hand I mean I think they're worth
every single dollar that we put into it
I don't think you can put a price on an
animal that's going extinct either I
think you can sort of say it's not worth
it for us getting to the end of this
this road is like it's so wonderful it's
it's probably one of the most wonderful
feelings that a human can experience I
think it's a sort of love in many ways
to these animals you know it's like
giving them back what they deserve
with her traumatic time in captivity
behind her baby pika now stands a chance
of living the natural life she should
over the next two days all twenty-five
orangutangs will be released in this
river basin black Mustafa and baby pika
everyone is being given back the freedom
that humans had taken from them every
single orangutan here that we're
releasing now do we actually say from
being killed for us getting them out and
seeing them just take off into the trees
it makes me feel very very happy there's
probably the best feeling in the world
they'll spread out they'll find out
their own little territories and and
settle down and become real parameters
again
[Music]
it's just been a fantastic experience
this time took a lot of planning but you
know it's it's gone really well I think
the best thing is probably seeing this
fantastic forestay along the Banana
River I've flown over it it looked
absolutely wonderful but sitting here is
just thing thinking you know this is
probably you know the most fantastic
spot for the orangutans to be released
going after this is expect to the center
again where we've had just before I left
just in the last two days we had seven
more rainbow types coming in it really
is our never-ending job despite all her
efforts orangutangs arrived at the
center faster than loaner can release
them time really is running out for the
entire species it's been predicted that
in just 13 years only 2% of the
orangutangs indonesian forests could
remain